LOGIN:
1. By clicking on the drop-down menu, you choose to log in as (Admin, Doctor, Receptionist, or Patient).
2. Then, enter the user name & password
3. Finally, click the (login) button to successfully open the page of the selected view
4. Also, you can click on the (Restart) button to enter another username, or password, or even change the selected view.

At the first loin:
To login as an admin (Admin=Salma & Password=12345)
To login as a doctor (Admin=Sahar & Password=12345)
To login as a receptionist (Admin=Salma & Password=12345)
To login as a patient (Admin=Zahra & Password=12345)





ADMIN VIEW:
If you logged in as an admin, the admin home page will appear to you.
On the home page you could choose (Patients, Doctors, Devices, Receptionist, or Laboratory).

A) If you Select (Patients), you will have 3 options: (Add, Delete, and Edit)

To Add Patient: 
1. Enter the patient's name
2. Select the patient's gender
3. Enter the patient's phone number. (YOU SHOULD ENTER 10 digits other than you will not be able to add a patient)
4. Write the allergies that he is suffering from
5. Write the patient's address
6. Finally, click the (Add) button, and the patient will be successfully added. Also, you can find that the data you entered appeared in the grid box.

To Edit Patient's Data:
1. From the grid box, click on the patient's data that you need to edit, it will be added to its fields, so you could edit it easily.
2. Edit whatever data you wanted to edit.
3. Click on the (Edit) button, and the data of the patient will be edited in the database and grid box.


To Delete Patient:
1. From the grid box, click on the data of the patient you want to delete. It will appear in its fields.
2. Click on the (Delete) button, and the data of the selected patient will be deleted from the database and grid box.


B) If you Select (Doctors), you will have 3 options: (Add, Delete, and Edit)

To Add Doctor: 
1. Enter the doctor's name
2. Select the doctor's gender
3. Enter the doctor's phone number
4. Select the doctor's specialization (Eye Laser, Surgery)
5. Write the doctor's address
6. Enter the years of experience
7. Enter a suitable password 
6. Finally, click the (Add) button, and the doctor will be successfully added. Also, you can find that the data you entered appeared in the grid box.

To Edit Doctor's Data:
1. From the grid box, click on the doctor's data that you need to edit, it will be added to its fields, so you could edit it easily.
2. Edit whatever data you wanted to edit.
3. Click on the (Edit) button, and the data of the doctor will be edited in the database and grid box.


To Delete Doctor:
1. From the grid box, click on the data of the doctor that you want to delete. It will appear in its fields.
2. Click on the (Delete) button, and the data of the selected doctor will be deleted from the database and grid box.

c) If you Select (Devices), you will have 3 options: (Add, Delete, and Edit)

d) If you Select (Receptionist), you will have 3 options: (Add, Delete, and Edit)

To Add Receptionist: 
1. Enter the receptionist's name
2. Enter the receptionist's phone number. 
3. Choose a suitable password to write 
4. Write the patient's address
5. Finally, click the (Add) button, and the receptionist will be successfully added. Also, you can find that the data you entered appeared in the grid box.

To Edit Receptionist's Data:
1. From the grid box, click on the receptionist's data that you need to edit, it will be added to its fields, so you could edit it easily.
2. Edit whatever data you wanted to edit.
3. Click on the (Edit) button, and the data of the receptionist will be edited in the database and grid box.


To Delete Receptionist:
1. From the grid box, click on the data of the receptionist you want to delete. It will appear in its fields.
2. Click on the (Delete) button, and the data of the selected patient will be deleted from the database and grid box.

e) If you Select (Laboratory), you will have 3 options: (Add, Delete, and Edit)

TO ADD TEST NAME AND COST:
1. Select one of the tests from the drop-down menu (Tonometer, Phoropter, Retinoscope, Autorefractor, Snellen Chart, Retinal Camera, Ophthalmoscope, or Vision Screener)
2. Write the cost of the selected test
3. Then, click the (Add) button, and the cost of the test name will be added.

To Edit the Test data:
1. From the grid box, click on the test that you need to edit, it will be added to its fields, so you could edit it easily.
2. Edit whatever data you wanted to edit.
3. Click on the (Edit) button, and the information about the test will be edited in the database and grid box.


To Delete the Test:
1. From the grid box, click on the data of the test you want to delete. It will appear in its fields.
2. Click on the (Delete) button, and the data of the selected test will be deleted from the database and grid box.





DOCTOR VIEW:
If you logged in as a doctor, the doctor home page will appear to you.
1. If clicking on the (Chat) -> a chat box will open between the receptionist and the doctor
2. If clicking on the (Emergency) -> an emergency chat box will be opened between the patient and the doctor
3. If clicking on (Number of the patients) -> the number of patients will appear
4. If clicking on the (Number of Appointments) -> the number of appointments will appear the doctor
5. If clicking on the (Ontologies) -> A web page of eye ontologies will open

A DOCTOR COULD ADD A PATIENT & WRITE THE PRESCRIPTION:
1. Click on the (Patients)
2. Choose by generation whether the patient is (Adult, Child, or Old)
3. Then, from the drop-down menu, choose the eye disease.
4. A prescription page will be opened

TO WRITE A PRESCRI
1. Select the doctor ID (The doctor who is writing the prescription) from the drop-down menu
2. Select the patient ID (The patient who registered will be already saved on the database, so you could retrieve his data) from the drop-down menu
3. Select the test ID
4. Check the 6 boxes of usual optometrist questions, and answer them as a doctor
5. Write the medicines & cost
6. Then, click on the (Add) button





RECEPTIONIST VIEW:
If you logged in as a doctor, the receptionist home page will appear to you.
1. If clicking on the (Chat) -> a chat box will open between the doctor and the receptionist
2. If clicking on the (Emergency) -> a receptionist could call the ambulance
3. If clicking on (Number of the patients) -> the number of patients will appear
4. If clicking on the (Number of Appointments) -> the number of appointments will appear the doctor
5. If clicking on the (Departments) -> the departments in the clinic will appear





PATIENT VIEW:
If you logged in as a doctor, the patient home page will appear to you.
You could select one of the 5 buttons depending on your need 

1. Profile -> a plain page will be opened and you could select (Patient Data, Patient History, or Patient Medical Record) to control the data that you need to see on that page.
2. Specifications -> The patient could click on (Optometrist) (Optician) (Ophthalmologist) or (Eye Emergencies)
3. Doctors -> to know the doctors of the clinic
4. About us -> Information about the eye clinic
5. Chat Clinic -> a chat box will be opened between the patient and the doctor
Finally, you could log out from the patient by clicking on (Logout) button











